 this lecture, I will give you an introduction to SAP Activate methodology.

So what is SAP Activate methodology.

It is a methodology which is used in SAP s four HANA implementation projects.

This methodology is a successor of a SAP or accelerated SAP methodology which is used in SAP ERP implementation

projects.

That is the business suite before SAP s four HANA.

It is a combination of best practices or ready to run processes with documentation, what is best practices.

So basically best practices provide the baseline configurations which enable ready to run processes

with documentation guided configuration that is prescriptive step by step deployment guidance for project

teams.

The SAP activate methodology itself powerful integrated tools for configuration deployment and run stages

powered by SAP Cloud Application Lifecycle management.

That is the key.

Noted improvements in this methodology are agile project delivery and what is Agile project delivery?

Agile is a method is another methodology which is a way to manage a project by breaking it up into several

phases.

It involves constant collaboration with stakeholders and continuous improvement at every stage.

Once the work begins, all the teams cycle through a process of planning, executing and evaluating

further.

Agile methodology can be applied to both cloud and on premise editions.

It also provides you with out of box migration content and new implementation scenario in the cloud,

as I mentioned, as guided configuration.

Reduced project life cycle with four phases only.

That is, prepare, explore, realize, and deploy.

And we can also compare the phases of SAP, activate methodology with SAP methodology.

So in SAP methodology roadmap, there were.

Five different phases project preparation, business blueprint, realization, final preparation and

then go live and support.

While in SAP activate roadmap, we have Discover phase.

Then we have prepare, explore, realize, deploy and then we have run phase.

So discover and run phases are the ones where the customers have to work and prepare, explore, realize

and deploy are the ones where we as consultants have to work.

Blueprint Documentation activities replaced with solution fit or gap workshops.

I will demonstrate you the link of SAP Activate Roadmap viewer where SAP has already provided the templates

for solution fit gap.

It is a complete package which helps customers and partners implement SAP s four HANA smoothly.

Further.

He has introduced this as a solution landscape, which is comprised of tools and resources that meets

customers expectations and demands, whether in the cloud, hybrid or mobile, such as to roll out functionality

in phases, managing the changes by region or department instead of all at once.

This enables them to uncover and address potential issues early before they become actual problems to

help them jump start their success and maintain momentum to be more focused on once that feature incremental

implementations scheduled over multiple releases to reduce implementation costs and accelerate return

on investment through shorter deployment times to deploy projects faster by reducing their deployment

cycles from years to months.

As SAP activate, Methodology works for the following types of projects Greenfield Implementation Project

or new implementation.

Roll out Implementation project.

Brownfield Implementation Project.

Or we can also call it as a landscape transformation or system conversion support project and selective

data transition.

And you can watch the last lecture where I have explained the following types of projects.

And here is the link to SAP Roadmap Viewer, which SAP has provided and SAP Best practice Explorer through

this link.

And this link can be used by the customer and in order to use this best practice explorer as user ID

is required and you have s user ID when you book a certification exam with SAP or you work for an organization

which uses SAP, or when you have the subscription to SAP learning library, then you have as user ID.

So let's navigate to SAP Roadmap viewer by clicking on this link.

And the following page will start loading.

And you do not need an user ID In order to open this roadmap viewer, we can choose this option.

No access anonymously.

And we will be landed on this main page where we can see the roadmap viewer.

And we have four options to navigate.

Overview How to Use Learn more.

SAP Cloud Application Lifecycle Management.

And you also have the fifth option.

That is to explore all roadmaps and you can navigate each link to display its description, such as

the overview will show you the Roadmap viewer offer, and we can also navigate how to use where you

can watch this video.

And then you have the third navigation as Learn more.

And then the fourth one is application lifecycle management, where you can click each link to learn

about SAP cloud.

So let's click on this, explore all roadmaps, and here we can see links to the roadmaps related to

cloud specific methodology on premise, specific methodology, upgrade methodology and general methodology.

So let's navigate to on premise specific methodology.

We can also click this star icon to add this roadmap to Favorites folder.

So SAP activate methodology for transition to SAP s four.

HANA and I have added this to my favorites folder so we can also close this.

And now we can see under my favorite roadmaps as SAP activate methodology for transition to SAP s four

HANA.

Let's navigate to this.

And you will be landed on this page showing you the overview of this methodology and if you scroll down.

So it will also.

Give you the overview of each phase of SAP activate methodology such as the first phase is Discover,

and second phase is prepare so you can read through each phase to understand what activities you have

to perform in each phase of SAP Activate Methodology.

And here you can see, realize and deploy.

And then run.

And now if we navigate to the second link that is content.

So if we filter the content by selecting the box against each phase, for example, if we click on this

check box Discover, so it will show us the links under the discover.

So what is Discover phase?

It helps customers to get familiar with SAP s four HANA before starting a project to implement SAP.

As for HANA, during this phase, customers can apply for a free trial solution if applicable, and

try it out for themselves to check the features and functionalities of the solution which helps to understand

the business value and benefit of SAP s four HANA for the organization and to determine SAP implementation

strategy.

This phase also enables the business users to prepare the business case for implementing SAP s four

HANA, as well as preparing the deployment roadmap of the Digital Transformation Journey.

SAP Best Practices Explorer can be accessed via this link, but this will require as user ID by the

end of this phase.

Customers finalize to go ahead with the required SAP solution and move to the next phase in their implementation

life cycle.

So let's navigate to this link for SAP Best Practices Explorer.

I will click on this link.

And the following page will open which will ask you to log in with your user ID.

And once you log in, if you have any dialog box, you can click okay to continue and you can see the

best Practices Explorer through this screen where you can navigate to the links to explore best practices.

For example, if we click on this link SAP s four Hana.

And then navigate to on premise.

And.

Now we will go to the solution packages.

SAP Best practices for SAP.

As for HANA.

And here you can.

Go to overview, solution information and solution requirements so you can go through it and also you

can go through the software requirements.

So let's navigate to sourcing and procurement and then operational procurement.

And under that we will navigate to.

Procurement of direct materials.

So you can navigate to details.

And here SAP has already provided process flow.

So if we click on it.

So we can see the process flow of procurement, of direct materials.

And in this process flow you can see the roles and responsibilities of that role.

For example, purchaser role.

Can create a purchase requisition.

Then he can also convert purchase requisition to purchase orders or automatic conversion of purchase

requisition to purchase order.

Then a purchasing manager can approve a purchase order and similarly, warehouse clerk can post goods

issue and also can reverse goods receipt if necessary.

An inventory manager can analyze the stock overview.

So this is the process flow for procurement of direct materials.

So similarly, SAP has also provided the test script as a template which we can view if we click on

it, so we can download this word document.

And you can also go through this test script.

And further we have process flow, which is a zip file and also the test script that is a template for

manually uploading the test script as test case in SAP cloud.

So if we click on it, an Excel document will be downloaded and here you can see the test cases as well.

For example, activity title activity, target name activity, target URL and further columns related

to action.

So you can use this as a template for test script.

SAP has also provided the task tutorials which customers can use to check and test how a function functionality

on SAP.

As for HANA business suite works before they decide to go for SAP s four HANA implementation.

So click on this.

And we have this screen open where we can start the interactive session, for example.

I will create purchase order by using this interactive section and then click Start tutorial.

Click next.

So we have to open the app, select the manage purchase order so we have instruction in this dialog

box which we can follow.

So the customer will do the same in order to understand a process into SAP HANA business suite that

how it can be done.

So let's go through this process so that you have an idea that how this task tutorials work.

So let's enter the supplier number which it has mentioned in this dialog box and then go to delivery

and invoice tab and then enter the payment terms as 0003 and then go to choose notes.

And here we will enter the header text as PO for testing, press enter and then go to choose items and

then choose create.

And then in the material field we will enter this number.

Press Enter.

And then plant will be 1710.

And then order quantity will be 200 pieces.

And to display the details, select the item.

And now we will choose process control, and then we'll mark the checkbox for goods, receipt based

invoice verification, and then choose delivery details and storage location will be 1718.

Press Enter.

And then choose schedule lines.

And after that we will click this button and it says The delivery date must be in the future for this

example.

May 26th, 2022 is selected, as you can see on the screen.

Click next and then choose Apply.

And then in order to save the purchase.

Order.

Choose.

Order!

So the purchase order is created, the purchase order number is displayed, which you can see here.

Click next.

And in order to return to the launch pad, choose SCP and then you have successfully created a purchase

order manually.

This concludes the interactive tutorial.

Click next.

And you have successfully used the interactive session to create the purchase order.

You can also open a PDF document with the same screenshots which we followed in that interactive session.

As you can see on my screen.

That the same screenshots we have in this PDF document go back and this is all under Best Practices

Explorer.

Now I will go back to Roadmap viewer and where we can also click on the link that is strategy, strategic

planning and can.

Choose one of the link.

Such as create an innovation strategy and a high level roadmap.

So if we click on this and then scroll down so we can go through this.

Information and you can also filter the information through the work streams such as analytics, application

design and configuration integration and further work streams you can use to filter down the information.

You can also filter the information by marking the checkbox if it is a new implementation or if it is

a system conversion or selective data transition.

Further, you have option to show or hide filters, or you can also share the information by clicking

on this button through email and other social platforms.

And also under the accelerators.

We can see different files which SAP has provided as a template.

For example, we can click on best practice documents.

Elements for Designing a Transition Roadmap to SAP s four Hana.

Public.

So if we click on this.

So this has opened a PDF document which we can go through to understand this task under the.

Discovery phase.

Similarly, you can view other documents which SAP has provided as a template.

So your project manager will give you more information on that.

Now go back to discovery phase and further you can navigate to other links such as application value

and scoping.

And under each link, SAP has provided a template which you can view.

And this is the trial system provisioning.

Provide a trial system and you can go through this information that how the customers can apply for

SAP trial.

And this is all in the Discover phase.

Now go back and the next phase is prepare.

So I will click on prepare phase and this will now show me the links under this prepare phase.

So what is prepare phase In this phase, Activate is mainly focused on planning and preparation, initial

project plan, project goal, scope of the project implementation plan and rollout strategy are identified

and defined.

Project standards and governance roles and responsibilities and management plans for running the project

are also defined in this phase.

This phase is crucial to both customers and partners as key activities that are crucial to the success

of the project are completed with mutual consent.

The SAP environment, such as Sandbox, is set up with SAP best practices for ready to run processes.

The system is provisioned to the customer post signing of the contract with SAP and the partner.

Simultaneously, key resources are identified from the partner side in terms of the SAP consultants

getting onboarded and enabled from the customer side, business process owners are identified to provide

the right requirements to the consultants implementing the project.

During this phase, an initial level of requirement is already collected when the business process owners

fill in the business driven configuration assessment questionnaire.

This is a readily available document for the project team that can be downloaded and used to fasten

the project.

Deliver based on the answers obtained from the assessment.

Consultants need to plan for the next and probably most important phase of the SAP activate methodology

that is the explore phase.

So as an example, you can see the key resources through this diagram.

For example, project manager, team leaders.

Technical consultants.

Which are a B&B consultants basis consultants, and we have also functional consultants and the business

team.

So the requirements gathering sessions are held in between financial consultants and business team,

and further functional consultants also deliver the requirements to the technical consultants if the

enhancement is required in SAP system.

So let's click one of the link under the project, such as Project Kick off and Onboarding.

So if we expand this link project, kick off and onboarding and then go to onboard project team.

And we can see a file under accelerators.

So if we click on this so this has downloaded a PowerPoint template and you can see that this is a PowerPoint.

Slides, which you can go through.

And SAP has already provided this PowerPoint slides.

As Agile Management introduction.

Go back.

And similarly, you can go through other links in this phase that is prepared.

Now we will go to the next phase, that is explore.

And you can see.

In this phase that we have fit to standard workshops and documentation.

So what is explore phase?

The business users explore the best practices and standard business processes to ensure that those meet

business needs and all backlogs are captured.

Sample data provided by company is also available to enable business users to run the end to end processes

to evaluate how closely a standard solution meet meets the company's business needs.

The business users and the consulting firm agree on the configurable objects required for the company

and the same will be captured in that is key data structure or key design structure and that is business

process.

Document fit and gap analysis is done to identify the configuration and extensions that best meet the

customer's requirements to identify the gaps that the standard sap s four HANA is unable to offer that

is rice of objects.

So the question is what are gaps and what are rice objects?

In order to understand the gap, first we have to understand the fit to standard.

For example, you can see this diagram that this is the enterprise structure and this is SAP mapping.

It means that, for example, if an organization gives us the requirements of its enterprise structure

hierarchy at a high level, as you can see, then we can map it into SAP by using different objects

in SAP system such as client represents, enterprise, company code represents subsidiary or company

plant represents factory.

And similarly distribution channel refers to selling channel sales organization to sales department

and sales group refers to salespersons or sales team and storage location refers to storage, location

or warehouse.

So we can say that this is fit to standard.

Process or fit with process.

In other words, these requirements.

Can be met with the standard functionality of SAP system.

Now, if any organization's business requirement cannot be met with the standard functionality of SAP

system, then it will be a gap.

And gap analysis is usually documented with the reference of receive elements, which stands for Workflow

reports, Interfaces, Conversions, Enhancements and forms.

And further, you can see the example of interfaces such as Idocs conversions.

LSM or BDC enhancements refer to user exits.

And SAP has already provided the template for fit to standard workshops and documentation.

So if we expand this link and then go under fit to standard workshop documentation.

And then scroll down and under accelerators, you can see how to approach fit to standard analysis design

on premise.

So if we click on this and the following document will be downloaded, which we can open.

And this is the PowerPoint document which SAP has provided.

Which you can go through.

And can understand each phase as well.

Similarly we can navigate.

Other employee documents which has provided such as fit to standard workshops, execution.

And here we can click on fit to standard functional design templates.

So if we click on it.

A zip folder will be downloaded, which we can open.

And you can see the following word documents which SAP has provided for the receive elements such as

conversion enhancement, form, interface report and workflow.

So if it is a report which you have created in SAP system, so you can write functional specification

on that.

So you can view this template which SAP has provided.

So it has all the necessary.

Information which you need to fill in order to complete this functional specification document.

And further, you can also see.

The review checklist.

Similarly you can.

Navigate to other documents or links under this explore phase, such as we can view the design document.

By clicking on.

Functional specs public or fit to standard functional design templates.

So.

Let's click on Functional specs public and this is another.

Zip folder, which we can open and also we can see the.

Conversion enhancement interfaces, print forms, reports and workflows.

So let's click on the reports.

And.

This is a template for functional specification and this is for custom development.

So if customer custom development has been done by the ABAP consultants, then they can.

Update the information by using this template.

By entering the table.

Name field name format The default value.

And similarly, we can also view fit to standard functional design templates.

And these are the same documents which I showed you earlier.

Now we can go back and then navigate to the next phase.

That is real.

So if we click on it so we can see the links under this phase and then can navigate to one of the links

by expanding this and.

We can view the information under each link which has been provided by SAP.

And what is realized face.

In the realized phase, the focus is on tailored solutions, in short and timeboxed sprints.

The project team build test and validate the business scenarios and processes identified in the previous

phase along with end users.

End users training is also planned so that relevant end users can be engaged at the right time and be

trained only in their specific areas of working.

Multiple levels of testing, such as unit testing, string testing, integration testing and users acceptance

testing is performed to ensure that SAP system is configured according to the customer requirements

provided by the business process owners.

Data migration testing is also done to ensure the data filled in by the business.

Users are in the correct format and ready to import to the brand new SAP system.

A cut over plan is made to move the configurations of objects and master and transactional data to the

production system, which will be the system used by the business in real time.

This signifies the end of the realized phase, and remember that our training will be based on this

phase that is realized phase where I will show you the configuration related to sourcing and procurement

or materials management module, and then we will execute that process as an end user activity or business

user activity.

Once its configuration is done.

So our training is based on realize phase.

Now the next phase is deploy.

And we can also see its links and can view the templates related to the phase deploy.

So what is deploy phase?

In the deploy phase.

The project team prepares the system for production release and conducts the go live.

The business faces a temporary downtime as the new SAP system is deployed for usage to the business

users.

This is typically done during a weekend to ensure that customers have little to no effect due to the

downtime.

The cutover is a process that sometimes gives consultants sleepless nights as this is the culmination

of all their hard work being moved into the SAP system for the usage of an entire organization.

Once the cut over is done successfully and checked by the partner and the customer, the business users

are supported by the consultants and the users who now form the first line of support in case users

have doubts or face an issue.

And this is known as hyper care period support.

The customers and partners can now relish the success of the project through an intense time filled

with dedication and hard work from all stakeholders involved.

So we can navigate each link under this phase to understand this better.

Now I will proceed to the next phase that is run, which is the last phase in SAP activate methodology

and we can also see the links under this run phase.

So what is run phase in SAP activate methodology.

Business is live with new implementation and any issues, errors or incorrect entries that may have

occurred during the first few days of SAP.

As for HANA, going live are quickly corrected and support is provided accordingly.

The run phase signifies the end of the customer's life cycle from identifying a solution for their business

need to finally implement the solution and running their business process on the same.

The key activities in this phase can be monitoring systems, alerting analysis and administration of

the solution, small enhancements and fixes and optimization.

So this is all about SAP Activate methodology.

If you are a SAP consultant working for SAP partner, you should use SAP, Activate methodology as your

main methodology when working as project manager.

Implementing SAP Solutions.

This does not mean that you have to use always SAP activate.

There are projects where where SAP activate is not suitable considering the scope available resources,

deadlines.

ET cetera.

So I will proceed to the next activity.